# Enzymes

Glycosylation is catalyzed by two types of enzymes: glycosyltransferases
(GTs) and glycoside hydrolases (GHs). Glycosyltransferases catalyze the
transfer of a sugar residue from a donor to an acceptor. Glycoside
hydrolases catalyze the removal of a sugar residue from a substrate.
`glyenzy` provides a data structure (`glyenzy_enzyme`) to represent
these enzymes.

Use `enzyme()` with a gene symbol to load a predefined enzyme. For
example, use `enzyme("ST3GAL3")` to load the enzyme ST3GAL3.

Throughout the package, you can use `enzyme()`s for any `enzyme`
argument, or just use the gene symbol directly. For example,
`involve("Neu5Ac(a2-3)Gal(b1-3)GalNAc(a1-", "ST3GAL3")` and
`involve("Neu5Ac(a2-3)Gal(b1-3)GalNAc(a1-", enzyme("ST3GAL3"))` are
equivalent.

## Usage

``` r
enzyme(symbol)
```

## Arguments

- symbol:

  The gene symbol of the enzyme.

## Value

A `glyenzy_enzyme` object.

## Explanation about `glyenzy_enzyme`

An `enzyme()` is a list with the following elements:

1.  `name`: the name of the enzyme, usually the gene symbol.

2.  `rules`: a list of `glyenzy_enzyme_rule` objects. Each rule is a
    list with the following fields:

    - `acceptor`: the motif that the enzyme recognizes

    - `acceptor_alignment`: the alignment of the `acceptor`

    - `rejects`: the motifs that the enzyme rejects to act on

    - `product`: the product generated by the enzyme

    - `acceptor_idx`: the node index of the acceptor where the enzyme
      acts on. For GTs, this is the node new residue is attached to. For
      GHs, this is the node that is removed.

    - `product_idx`: the node index of the product residue in the
      product structure. For GTs, this is the index of the newly added
      residue in the product. For GHs, this is `NULL` (no new residue is
      added).

    - `new_residue`: the new residue added by the enzyme. For GHs, this
      is `NULL`.

    - `new_linkage`: the linkage of the new residue. For GHs, this is
      `NULL`.

3.  `type`: the type of the enzyme, "GT" for glycosyltransferase or "GH"
    for glycoside hydrolase.

4.  `species`: the species of the enzyme, e.g. "human" or "mouse".

You can see all these information by printing the enzyme object.

## Examples

``` r
library(glyrepr)

enzyme("ST3GAL3")
#> 
#> ── Enzyme: ST3GAL3 ─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
#> ℹ Type: "GT" (Glycosyltransferase)
#> ℹ Species: "human"
#> 
#> ── Rules (2) ──
#> 
#> → Rule 1: terminal alignment
#> Acceptor: "Gal(b1-3)GlcNAc(b1-"
#> Product: "Neu5Ac(a2-3)Gal(b1-3)GlcNAc(b1-"
#> → Rule 2: terminal alignment
#> Acceptor: "Gal(b1-4)GlcNAc(b1-"
#> Product: "Neu5Ac(a2-3)Gal(b1-4)GlcNAc(b1-"
```
